Extend JSON function docs (#17758)
pingcap/docs: functions-and-operators/json-functions.md

| [JSON_OVERLAPS()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-search.md#json_overlaps) | Indicates whether two JSON documents have overlapping part. If yes, returns 1. If not, returns 0. |

## Functions that modify JSON values

| Function Name                     | Description |
| --------------------------------- | ----------- |
| [JSON_APPEND()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-modify.md#json_append) | An alias to `JSON_ARRAY_APPEND()` |
| [JSON_ARRAY_APPEND()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-modify.md#json_array_append) | Appends values to the end of the indicated arrays within a JSON document and returns the result |
| [JSON_ARRAY_INSERT()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-modify.md#json_array_insert) | Insert values into the specified locations of a JSON document and returns the result |
| [JSON_INSERT()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-modify.md#json_insert) | Inserts data into a JSON document and returns the result |

> | [JSON_MERGE_PATCH()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-modify.md#json_merge_patch)  | Merge two or more JSON documents by patching/overwriting old values |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [JSON_MERGE_PATCH()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-modify.md#json_merge_patch)  | Merges two or more JSON documents, without preserving values of duplicate keys |
```

| [JSON_STORAGE_SIZE()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-utility.md#json_storage_size) | Returns an approximate size of bytes required to store the json value. As the size does not account for TiKV using compression, the output of this function is not strictly compatible with MySQL. |

## Aggregate functions

| Function Name                     | Description |
| --------------------------------- | ----------- |
| [JSON_ARRAYAGG()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-aggregate.md#json_arrayagg) | Provides an aggregation of keys. |
| [JSON_OBJECTAGG()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-aggregate.md#json_objectagg) | Provides an aggregation of values for a given key. |

## Validation functions
    
| Function Name                     | Description |
| --------------------------------- | ----------- |
| [JSON_SCHEMA_VALID()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-validate.md#json_schema_valid) | Validates a JSON document against a schema to ensure data integrity and consistency. |

## JSON Path

> Many of JSON functions use JSON Path to select parts of a JSON document.

Author: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-goessner-dispatch-jsonpath-00 lists this as "Replaced Internet-Draft".

The replacement is https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-normington-jsonpath which itself is replaced by https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-jsonpath-base

And https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-jsonpath-base is listed as an older version of https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9535

```suggestion
Many of JSON functions use [JSONPath](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9535.html) to select parts of a JSON document.
```

| [JSON_QUOTE()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-create.md#json_quote) | Returns a string as a JSON value with quotes |

## Functions that search JSON values

| Function Name                     | Description |
| --------------------------------- | ----------- |
| [JSON_CONTAINS()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-search.md#json_contains) | Indicates by returning 1 or 0 whether a given candidate JSON document is contained within a target JSON document |
| [JSON_CONTAINS_PATH()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-search.md#json_contains_path) | Returns 0 or 1 to indicate whether a JSON document contains data at a given path or paths |
| [JSON_EXTRACT()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-search.md#json_extract) | Returns data from a JSON document, selected from the parts of the document matched by the `path` arguments |
| [->](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-search.md#-)  | Returns the value from a JSON column after the evaluating path; an alias for `JSON_EXTRACT(doc, path_literal)`   |

> | [->>](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-search.md#--1)  | Returns the value from a JSON column after the evaluating path and unquoting the result; an alias for `JSON_UNQUOTE(JSON_EXTRACT(doc, path_literal))` |

Author: @hfxsd do you think this would cause issues. Any better way of doing this?

| [JSON_MERGE()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-modify.md#json_merge)  | A deprecated alias for `JSON_MERGE_PRESERVE()` |
| [JSON_REMOVE()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-modify.md#json_remove)    | Removes data from a JSON document and returns the result |
| [JSON_REPLACE()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-modify.md#json_replace) | Replaces existing values in a JSON document and returns the result |
| [JSON_SET()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-modify.md#json_set)  | Inserts or updates data in a JSON document and returns the result |
| [JSON_UNQUOTE()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-modify.md#json_unquote) |  Unquotes a JSON value and returns the result as a string |

## Functions that return JSON value attributes

| Function Name                     | Description |
| --------------------------------- | ----------- |
| [JSON_DEPTH()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-return.md#json_depth) | Returns the maximum depth of a JSON document |

> | [JSON_LENGTH()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-return.md#json_length) | Returns the length of a JSON document, or, if a path argument is given, the length of the value within the path |

Author: I think these are fine here. They return attributes of a JSON value. The attributes being "type", "length", etc.

This is similar to the MySQL docs: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.4/en/json-attribute-functions.html and is also where these were listed before this PR.

> | [JSON_TYPE()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-return.md#json_type) | Returns a string indicating the type of a JSON value |

Author: Yes, these should have been linked.

| [JSON_VALID()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-return.md#json_valid) | Checks if a json\_doc is valid JSON. |

## Utility functions

| Function Name                     | Description |
| --------------------------------- | ----------- |
| [JSON_PRETTY()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-utility.md#json_pretty) | Pretty formatting of a JSON document |

> | [JSON_STORAGE_FREE()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-utility.md#json_storage_free) | Returns how much storage space was freed in the binary representation of the JSON value after it was updated in place. As TiDB has different storage architecture from MySQL, this function always returns 0 for a valid JSON value, and it is implemented for compatibility with MySQL 8.0. |

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that normally TiDB does not update in-place, due to different MVCC model?

Author: I'll remove this detail on this page. Let's add all the detail on the page describing this feature.

Author: I'll add a link to `storage-engine/rocksdb-overview.md`.

| [JSON_STORAGE_SIZE()](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-utility.md#json_storage_size) | Returns an approximate size of bytes required to store the json value. As the size does not account for TiKV using compression, the output of this function is not strictly compatible with MySQL. |

## Aggregate functions

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that these functions aggregates rows into either JSON Arrays/Objects? I.e. clarify that they are related to `GROUP_CONCAT()`?

Author: I added a note on top of `json-functions-aggregate.md` for this.

        "name": "TiDB",
        "features": [
            "distributed",
            "scalable",
            "relational",
            "cloud native"
        ],
        "license": "Apache-2.0 license",
        "versions": [
            {
                "version": "v8.1.0",
                "type": "lts",
                "release_date": "2024-05-24" 
            },
            {
                "version": "v8.0.0",        
                "type": "dmr",
                "release_date": "2024-03-29"
            }
        ]
    },
    "migration_tool": {
        "name": "TiDB Data Migration",
        "features": [
            "MySQL compatible",            
            "Shard merging"
        ],
        "license": "Apache-2.0 license"
    }
}
```

| JSONPath                              | Description                             | Example with [`JSON_EXTRACT()`](/functions-and-operators/json-functions/json-functions-search.md#json_extract) | 
|-------------------------------------- |-----------------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| `$`                                   | The root of the document                |                               |

> | `$.database`                          | The database attribute                  |                               |

Reviewer 2: Should the example also be filled in for these? Or at least mentioned that it would show the full document/partial document?

Author: I'll add a description.

| `$.database.name`                     | The name of the database.               | `"TiDB"`                      |

> | `$.database.features`                 | All database features                   |                               |

Reviewer 2: I think we could show the full array here in the example?
`["distributed", "scalable", "relational", "cloud native"] `

Author: I'll add that.

| `$.database.features[0]`              | The first database feature.             | `"distributed"`               |
| `$.database.features[2]`              | The third database feature.             | `"relational"`                |
| `$.database.versions[0].type`         | The type of the first database version. | `"lts"`                       |
| `$.database.versions[*].release_date` | The release date for all versions.      | `["2024-05-24","2024-03-29"]` |

> | `$.*.features`                        | Two array's of features                 |                               |

Reviewer 2: Is `[["distributed", "scalable", "relational", "cloud native"], ["MySQL compatible", "Shard merging"]]` too much to include?

Author: I think it is...

Author: Actually... I think this might be ok.

| `$**.version`                         | All versions, with path wildcard        | `["v8.1.0","v8.0.0"]`         |
| `$.database.features[0 to 2]`         | Range of database features.             | `["scalable","relational"]`   |

For more information, see [the IETF draft for JSONPath](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-goessner-dispatch-jsonpath-00.html).

## See also

* [JSON Data Type](/data-type-json.md)

## Unsupported functions

- `JSON_SCHEMA_VALIDATION_REPORT()`
- `JSON_TABLE()`
- `JSON_VALUE()`

For more information, see [#14486](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/14486).

> ## MySQL Compatibility

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## MySQL compatibility
```
